♪
[dog barking in distance]
No.
No way.
[sighs]
Dr. Pershing, hi.
You're not gonna believe this.
I don't know
if Ieven believe it,
but maybe you'll believe it,
'cause you did it.
I don't know how you did it,
but you did.
I... slept...
through the night.
Kind of freaking out
a little bit right now.
I... feel...
I don't really know how I feel.
I guess this is
what it's like to feel rested,
so I just wanted to say...
thank you, thank you, thank you.
Bye. Bye.
♪
[glass shatters]
Hey, kid.
Kid, hold up.
Lose something?
What's your name?Phineas.
Hey, Phineas.
How are you?
I'm Jethro Gibbs.
You just move in
across the street?
PHINEAS:
Mm-hmm.
You on your way to school?
Don't be late.
It's for my job.
[phone rings]
Yeah, McGee.
I'm really sorry,
Jethro Gibbs.
I'll buy you a new window.
Don't worry about it.
Yeah, give me an address.
I take it that's
not yours.
Corporal Alimonte?
Um, Laney.
Did you touch it?
Nine millimeter with suppressor.
Possible one
round expended.
Blood on the barrel.
This is not happening.
I know this is stressful,
but we have a few more
questions to ask you.
Well, no sign
of a break-in.
Security cameras outside
aren't hooked
up to anything.
The apartment manager never
got around to 'em, apparently.
All right.
Run the serial number.
Got it.
Hey, Laney,
we're gonna need your help
to figure out how
that gun got in there.I don't know about the weapon.
I don't know how it got in my
fridge, I don't know anything!
TORRES:
Drugs.
Lots and lots of drugs.
Wow.
Depression, anxiety, insomnia.
Well, you got one
for everything.
Who are you talking to?
You.
Come on, man.
Heard you come in.
Uh-huh.
Dude, she's got, like,
four prescriptions
just to help her go to sleep.
Bro, I hit the bed,
and I'm actually...
[clears throat]
Got a hit on the
nine millimeter.
It's registered
to a Joe Cortez.
Hey.
You know
Joe Cortez?
McGEE:
Lives about
two miles from here,
just up Route 87.
Bishop, go. Nick...Okay.
...go with her.
[knocking]
NCIS!
Anyone home?
[doorbell ringing]Yo, Mr. Cortez!
We have something
that belongs to...
[loud cawing]Ooh, what was that?
Birds?I'm gonna go with crows.
Who has crows for pets?
How do you know that?
"Crowtez."
TORRES:
Oh, so he's clearly single.
And home... and ignoring us.
Yo, Cortez?!
It's actually unlocked.Good enough for me.
Time's up! Coming in!
TORRES:
Yeah, he's definitely single.
BISHOP:
A lot of peanut shells.
Doesn't own a vacuum?
[crows cawing][sighs]
Polly want a cracker?
Ask 'em if they know
where their owner is.
I don't have to.
I'm guessing this
is Mr. Cortez?
TORRES:
A very dead Mr. Cortez.
Must have been
laying here for hours.
Narrow entry wound,
small-caliber weapon.
Nine millimeter?
Now where have I seen
one of those before?
Marines are sending
over her file now,
but I already
got this.
The corporal's
being discharged?
More like kicked out.
Paperwork was filed last week.
Official reason given is,
"Failing to meet all
expectations of conduct."
What's the unofficial reason?Don't know.
Her C.O. is out
at a funeral today.
But it's an "other
than honorable" discharge,
so, clearly,
there's more to the story.
Kasie's running
ballistics on the gun
that we found next
to the Cool Whip.
Pretty soon, we'll
find out if it's the gun
that killed our victim.Got a time of death?
Between midnight
and 3:00 a.m.
Same time Corporal Alimonte
claims to be sleeping.
All right, our victim--
what do we know?
Well, Joe Cortez,
38 years old.
Hosted a social media
channel called--
I am not kidding-- The Low Joe
Crow Show.
Any record?
Nada.Any connection
to the corporal?
None that we can find.Bishop tracked down
a half sister.
She lives in Maryland.Well, then have
Bishop bring her in.
Got it.
Listen, boss,
I got one other thing,
came in about an hour ago,
but it's, uh...
it's not related
to the case.
Yeah? About what?Fornell's daughter.
How's she doing, by the way?
She's making progress.Well, I think
I found a lead
on the counterfeit opioids
that you mentioned were
coming in from Canada.
On a whim, I put in a BOLO
on the NCIC.
It was flagged...
Tim, give it to the DEA.
Are you sure, boss?
You... you don't want
to check with Fornell?
He wants to move on.
Give it to the DEA.
It's theirs, anyway.
Who is she? Some rando
who Joe met on that dating app?
Which dating app is that?
All of 'em.
He struck out
with pretty much
the whole Internet.
We found your brother's
gun at her house.
My half brother.
Your deadhalf brother's gun.
[phone whooshes]So did she kill him?
She says she didn't,
and as far as we can tell,
her and Joe didn't even
know each other.
Well, he didn't have
many friends,
except for those damned birds.[phone chimes]
Can you think of anyone who may
have wanted to see him dead?
You mean besides himself?
He tried suicide once.
Of course,
he failed at that, too.
Okay, so I take it
you two weren't close?
How'd you guess?
The only reason I drove
all the way out here is so dear
old Dad can get his ring back.
What ring would that be?Dad's signet ring.
Joe never took it off; they were
both all sentimental like that.
Joe wasn't wearing a ring
when we found him.
[scoffs softly]
Even in death,
he finds a way to screw me.
[ringtone playing]I need to take this.
Hey, baby.
Oh, I missed your voice.
[giggles]
You know, you don't have
to test it again.
This is the last time.
That is what you said
last time.
And the last time
before that.
Come on, Kase.
Trust your results.
If I'm boring you,
you're free to leave.
To be honest, yes,
I'm a little bored.
Yeah,
I picked up on that by the way
you're totally annoying me.
Whoa. What are you doing?
Running ballistics
on the fridge gun.
Yeah, I see that, but who
taught you how to fire a gun?
People, back off and
let me do my thing.
[gunshot]
Okay. I did my thing.
So, the bullet on the
right is from our victim.
The one on the left is the one
I just fired into the tank.
The striations
are identical.
Which means our fridge gun
is the murder weapon.
All we need now
is the murderer.
Well, I found
some fingerprints
on the nine millimeter's grip.
Whose?
Someone's I didn't want to find.
Corporal Alimonte.
That makes no sense.
SLOANE:
Why on earth
would she kill someone,
stash the murder weapon
in her fridge
and then call the
cops on herself?
Why you asking me?
Nuts is your department.
I have a theory,
actually.
The corporal may be
suffering from some sort
of mental illness.She's suffering
from something.Her file lists
erratic behavior,
breaches in protocol.
Tack on severe insomnia,
and all signs point to
a psychological disorder
that the Marines
may not even be aware of.
A disorder
that makes you kill people?
I don't know.
But it's a reason to
tread carefully in there.
Jack, like I said,
your department.
Why am I here?
I didn't do anything.
Hi, Laney.
I'm Special Agent
Jack Sloane,
and you already know Sp...
I shouldn't be here.
There's been a mistake.
So tell him.
Tell him there's been a mistake.
Who's that?
SLOANE:
That is Joe Cortez.
He owned the gun
you found in your fridge.
Did you ask him
how it got there?
No.Why not?
Because he was killed with it
five hours before you found it.
SLOANE:
Laney, your
fingerprints were
on the murder weapon.
That's... impossible.
I never touched it.
And we found the victim's
signet ring in your car.
GIBBS:
Suppose you
never touched that either?
[breathing heavily]
[sniffles]
Laney?
[crying softly]
Hey, Laney?
Corporal!
Yes, sir.
Did you kill
Joe Cortez?
Maybe.
Maybe?
I'm looking at the same evidence
you are.
And, to be honest,
I don't remember anything
after I spoke to Dr. Pershing.
Is that who prescribed you
all those sleeping pills?
No, he's my therapist.
My hypnotherapist. Uh...
He says he can help me go
to sleep without all the drugs.
He says I'm...
a great subject.SLOANE: Did he,
by any chance,
hypnotize you last night?
Yes. We had
a video chat session.
One second, I'm...
counting back, and...
next thing I know, it's morning.
I thought
that I slept through the night.
But what if I didn't?
SLOANE:
Are you suggesting
you might have shot Joe Cortez
while under hypnosis?
I need you to believe me.
I would never murder anyone.
But if I did,
Dr. Pershing
must have made me do it.
Hypno-homicide?
Hard to believe that you
could hypnotize someone
to commit a murder.
But Sloane seems
pretty adamant
that you meet
this new expert she found.
Oh, hi, Popeye.
Dr. Grace. Nice to see you.
Good to see you, too, Tim.
Imagine my surprise
when Jack called,
asking if I knew
any certified
hypnotherapists.
Turns out I do.
SLOANE:
Just hear her out,
Gibbs.
Hypnosis has been
a grossly misrepresented
phenomenon,
so Grace is here to help you,
you know, understand.Understand what?
I should get back.No, no, no, no.
Tim, please, stay.
You're the only
one on the team
who's been hypnotized before.
I need you.Well, that was--
that was a long time ago.
I was...
trying to remember the details
of a murder I witnessed.
And as I understand it, it
worked and you caught the guy?
Oh, come on, Doc.Gibbs,
hypnosis is nothing more than
a state of focused attention,
where a subject
is highly suggestible.
That's why hypnotherapists
can help people quit smoking,
conquer phobias, beat insomnia.
We're not talking
about insomnia, Doc.
Look, I get it.
You don't believe
that anyone could convince
a law-abiding person
to shoot someone.
But a hypnotist
can change a subject's
perception of reality.
SLOANE:
That's right.
For example,
one could create
an imaginative scene
where that same
law-abiding person
must shoot a bear
that is attacking
to save their child.
You know what I mean?
No? Okay, Grace,
maybe it would be helpful
if you could demonstrateA bear?
hypnosis for us.
What a great idea.
All I need is a subject.
Hey, McGee.
Sorry, what?
Ah. Hey, Gibbs.
Uh, we tracked down
Laney's hypnotherapist.
Took two of you
to tell me that?
Well, maybe we heard
that someone
was being hypnotized in here.
Did we miss it?
McGee, come on.Wait.
I wish he could've stayed
for the demo.
Mm.Mm.
Mm.
Mm.Oh!
Oh. No.
[chuckles]
No, no, no.
I'm not gonna play
somebody's voodoo doll.
What about you, Ellie?
Come on, Jack. I mean,
you really believe
Corporal Alimonte was
hypnotized to kill?
I don't know
what to believe.
That's why I need to see
with my own eyes
what a hypnotist can
and cannot do.Mm.
And you know what, Ellie?
Skeptics make the best subjects.
Okay.
Fine. I'm in.
Yay!
Maybe you can suggest I...
stop biting my nails
while you're in my head.
Okay.
Yeah, buddy.
Hmm.
Excuse me!
I'm next.
NCIS.Uh-huh.
You still can't go in.
You have to activate
the red light.
To let Dr. Pershing know
you're here.
Got it, boss.
[woman screams]
Excuse me,
you can't just barge in here...
NCIS.Ma'am.
Ma'am,
are you okay?She's fine.
It's part
of her primal therapy session.
What?Is she hypnotized?
Yes.
Session's over.
We need to talk.
[exhales]
Okay, one moment.
All right, Audrey,
we're going
to stop now.
When I count
to three,
you're going to wake up.
Primal therapy, my ass.
I've actually heard of it, boss.
Big empty chair represents
a person that has wronged them.
So they yell at it over...
You don't care about this.No, I do not.
Okay.
...and three.
You're awake.
What's going on, Doctor?
Audrey, if you could
just give me a few moments
with these gentlemen,
all right?
There better be a fire...
Corporal Alimonte.
Are you treating her?I'm sorry.
I can't discuss patient
histories without a signed...
HIPAA release form.
Signed and notarized.
[scoffs]
Okay.
I...
What do you want to know?
Did you hypnotize
her last night?
Yes.
Why?In addition
to several other serious issues,
she's been dealing
with crippling insomnia.
I was trying to help her sleep.
You suggest anything to her
other than sleep?
Plant a posthypnotic suggestion?
Actually, yes.
I told she should call me
the minute she woke up.
Which she did.
What is going on here?
Is Laney okay?McGEE: Not really.
But she is doing better
than Joe Cortez.
Okay, I give up.
Who is that?
That's the guy
she killed this morning.
Wh-- Uh, uh, no.
Uh, Laney is a lot of things,
but she's no killer.
McGEE:
That's what she said.
Right before she accused you
of forcing her to do it.
[laughing]
Gentlemen,
hypnosis doesn't work like that.
It's not some magic spell
that sends subjects
into a robotic trance,
blindly following orders.
It's hard enough to get a person
to quit smoking, for God's sake.
I certainly can't force someone
to commit a crime.
Did you ever try?No.
And unless you have any evidence
to the contrary,
I have patients to see.
Don't let the door hit you
on your way out.
GRACE:
And you're falling deeper
and deeper
into a state
of calm and focus
and deeper into a state
of relaxation.
[exhales]
[chuckles]
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I just...
I don't know. I was
tingly, and then...
It's okay, Ellie.Yeah, well,
I'm just bummed it didn't work,
because my manicure bill
is off the charts.
Actually, it worked perfectly.
No way.
Nick?
[gasps]
Is he really
hypnotized?
[chuckles softly]
Nick. Hey,
McGee is stealing
your protein powder.
GRACE:
It's actually not uncommon
for observers to go under
without knowing it.
Oh, this day just got
way more interesting.
So, what happens now?
Well...No, no. Please
don't tell us.
Show us.
Huh.
[phone rings]
Yeah, Bishop. What's up?
Hey, Gibbs.
I'm starting to think
the hypno-homicide theory may be
a little bit more legit
than it seems.
Ha.I know. I know.
I was a skeptic, too. But then
Dr. Grace hypnotized Torres
and got him to do all kinds
of weird stuff.
Oh, yeah?
He commit any felonies?
Well, only if
you consider butchering
a Beyoncé song a felony.
So, unless you have
any other theories...
Yeah. Well, how 'bout
that Laney's playing us?
What if she's not?
Well, then prove it.
How? When we can't even get a
warrant for the hypnotherapist.
Bishop,
you do not need a warrant
to dig up dirt on people.
Check his Facegram page.
Or his Instachat.
I got to go.
"Facegram"?
Okay.
[envelope slips under door]
♪
Can I help you?
You Phineas's mom?
What'd he do now?
Nothing.
Just wanted to return this.
Sorry, I don't understand.
What's this about?
Jethro Gibbs!
I said not to tell her.
She gets mad.
[chuckles]:
Oh, love. Wait.
Uh...
Phineas? Phineas,
get back here
and apologize right now!
My ex had custody for the
first half of his life, and...
well, let's just say manners
weren't a big part of it.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Have a nice night.
Uh, wait.
Who are you?
Uh... Jethro Gibbs.
I live across the street.
Ah.
Phineas...
introduced himself to me
this morning.
He broke your window, didn't he?
It's already fixed.This is his second
one this week.
Boys at his new school, they
all play baseball during recess
and he's decided
he wants to learn.
Yeah, well,
we can all use
a little practice.I wish I could help him,
but with my two jobs and his dad
out of the picture...
This is $3.50.
His lunch money.
Well, um, thank
you for...
I don't know,
not being a jerk.
It's tough being
the new kid.
He's a southpaw, huh?
Left hand?Oh, uh, no,
he's, um, right-handed. Why?
Hmm.
Nothing.
Uh, nice meeting you.
Phineas. See you.
BISHOP:
This is the lamest
social media profile
I have ever seen.
Yeah. But look how
many leads we got.
That therapist lived
in Florida, Georgia,
Alabama, South Carolina
and North Carolina.
And Kasie even tracked
him down in Missouri
12 years ago.
Hmm...What?
Nothing. We've just
been doing this for hours,
and we've got zilch.
I mean, I am...
frustrated,
hungry and cross-eyed.
Aren't you tired?
Nope. I'm ready to go.
Grace said I would
wake up, uh...
you know, energized
and refreshed,
and I did.
Hypnosis is
the bomb, baby.
What the hell?
I lost my blade.
No, you didn't lose it.
[opens drawer]You...
gave it to me...
while you were under.
Nobody touches
my blade.
And that is why Sloane had Grace
ask you to give it to me.
To demonstrate.Demonstrate what?
That you could be influenced
to do something that
you wouldn't normally do.
That's so not cool.
[laughs]Wait.
What... what else did I do
that I normally wouldn't do?
Okay, hold on,
wait, wait, wait.
Wait a minute.
Time out.
Did I do
something else?
Got something!
Somebody give me the clicker.
I'm ready to click.
Missouri came through.
St. Louis.
2007. College kid steals
a case of beer
from a convenience store.
He tells cops his roommate
"hypnotically"
forced him to do it.
Cops don't believe him.
Charge him with a misdemeanor.
He pays a fine. Hey...
Bob's your uncle.
My uncle's name
is Jeffrey.
Francisco Javier.
It's an expression. Look.
The police report contained
a surveillance image
of the robbery.
That's the thief with the beer
getting into the car, but look
who's driving.
Is that Dr. Pershing?
12 years younger,
but... yeah.
Wait, he told Gibbs
that hypnotizing someone
to commit a crime
was impossible.
He lied.
What else did he lie about?
You're taking lead in
the interrogation, yeah?
Yeah, you're taking lead.
You got a problem, Torres?
Uh, wha-- No.
What? No problem, no.
He's not gonna hypnotize you.
[high-pitched]:
What?
No. [stammers]
Oh, you think I'm worried
that this guy's gonna hyp...
hypno...
[clears throat]
No. No, I'm cool.
Cool.
All right, let's do this.
Whoa, whoa, what...
what the hell is this?
It's an interrogation.
For what?
I didn't do anything.
Well, you lied
to federal agents.
No, I most definitely
did not do that.You said
you can't hypnotize someone
to commit a crime.
You can't.Well,
your college roommate says
you did exactly that.
What?You want to change
your story,
Doctor?
Okay, you
can't really think that...
This was 12 years ago.
[exhales]
Okay, I...
I was just learning hypnosis.
I needed to practice,
so I tried it out
on my willingroommate.You told him
to rob a liquor store.Well, he just
used me as an excuse
once the cops busted him.
Would he have robbed
that liquor store
if you didn't hypnotize him?All this proves
is that my roommate
really wanted some beer.
It was easy to influence him
to steal it.
Corporal Alimonte.
Was she easy to influence, too?
Okay, if Laney killed someone,
that was her idea, not mine.
Yeah, but you said
she wasn't homicidal.Yes, but she doesn't sleep,
she loses time--
maybe she snapped
and repressed the memory.Well, maybe you
hypnotized her into thinking
she had to shoot a bear
to protect herself.And by "bear," he
means Joe Cortez.
I still don't know who that is.
Um...
I want a lawyer.
[voice cracks]:
Now.
Whoa, what are you doing?
You're-you're gonna stay here?
[clears throat]
You, um... Okay, you're leaving.
[sighs]
Well?
What do you think?I think we
are not going to turn
200 years of murder statute
upside down
by charging a hypnotist
with homicide.
Last time I checked,
The Manchurian Candidate
was just a movie, right?
Right?
Sometimes life
imitates art, Director.
The evidence says Corporal
Alimonte pulled the trigger.
Yes, but what if he
convinced her to do it?Come on,
Jack.Look.
We already have him on record
hypnotizing oneperson
to commit a crime.
Yeah, but stealing beer is not
the same as committing murder.
Help me out here, Dr. Grace.
Do you believe
in mind-control murder?
Here's what I'll say.
If a corrupt hypnotist
spent months building trust
with the right patient,
used multilayered suggestions
and embedded commands
over the course
of many sessions,
there's a greater-
than-zero chance
that someone ends up dead.
If this happened--
and that is a gigantic if--
how would we even prove it?
I don't know.
It's literally
the perfect murder.
Dr. Pershing's lawyer?
Yep. And the way
this is going,
he's gonna need one.
What? You, too?
I-I thought you were
in Camp Skeptics with me.
I was, until yesterday,
when I saw Torres eat
an entire apple fritter.
What?Grace hypnotized him,
told him it was
a protein bar.And he believed it?
That is what I'm saying, McGee--
if a hypnotist can alter
someone's perception
of reality that much,
who knows how far it could go?
Okay, you're telling me
that-that
Mr. Muscle Boy took a doughnut,
put it in his mouth
and chewed it?
I would have loved
to have seen that.
That is why I
took a picture.
Picture of what?
A picture of...
motive, boss.
We-we still
can't find any.
I mean, even if we assume
that Dr. Pershing was
able to hypnotize
Corporal Alimonte into
committing a murder for him,
we still don't have a motive.That cuts both ways.
As far as we know,
Corporal Alimonte and our
victim are complete strangers.
There's no connection
so no motive, either.She shot him in the heart.
There's a connection.McGee,
does she really seem
capable of murder?
Without being
hypnotized?Enough!
You talk to her C.O. yet?He, uh, returned
to Quantico about an hour ago.
Go!
Both of you.
Go fight in the car.
Uh, did you
go shopping?
Like, a shopping mall?
Did Dr. Grace hypnotize you?
Quantico!
On my way.
Corporal Alimonte worked by my
side through two duty stations.
She was an invaluable
asset to the Corps.
So invaluable
you're discharging her?
Wasn't my
decision, ma'am.
But it was the right one.
So, what happened?
[sighs]
You know about her insomnia?
So I tried to be
accommodating.
Little mistakes, I'd overlook,
but... they got bigger.
So you recommended
a medical exam.Yes, sir.
But she got worse, not better.
And last week
I found her catatonic,
shoving scissors into that wall.
I intervened,
and she...
threatened me.
So you wrote her up
for office hours.
Correct.
When the captain heard
what happened...
he put her on limited duty
and recommended
the OTH discharge.Back to the threat.
What... what exactly
did she say to you?
Didn't say anything.
She came after me
with those scissors.
[lullaby playing softly]
SLOANE [distorted, echoing]:
Laney?
Laney.
Hey, Laney?
Can you hear me?
Agent Sloane.
Are you okay?
I don't know.
Did you get any sleep
at all last night?
[inhales sharply]
I kept thinking
about Tracey's orchid.
Tracey's my neighbor;
she's on vacation.
I told her I would water it.
It's beautiful.
Purple flowers
but it's very delicate
and I have to remember
to water it tonight.
I don't think you're gonna be
going home tonight, Laney.
Maybe you could water it?
I know that you have insomnia.
But I think there's something
else going on with you.
Something only
a medical doctor can diagnose,
not a hypnotherapist.
Speaking of Dr. Pershing,
he claims, unsurprisingly,
that he did not ask you
to kill anyone.
But without evidence
to the contrary,
and your fingerprints
on the gun...
Have you thought
any more about that night
he hypnotized you?
Did he do or say
anything unusual?
The man who died...
Did he have a family?
Uh, yeah.
Can you tell them
that I'm sorry?
I don't remember what happened
but that I'm sorry.
You believe me, right?
Yeah, I do.
We've got
a ginormous problem,
which is why
I called you right away,
so you can see it right away,
so that you can
do something right away.
The murder weapon
with Laney's fingerprints
on the grip.
I've highlighted them
so you can see.
Yeah, I see.
KASIE:
Three fingerprints
on the left side of the grip,
a partial thumbprint
above them,
which leaves one finger
for the trigger.
It's a normal pattern.
With one abnormal distinction,
which I noticed
when I was
scanning the prints
for evidence archives.
The print of her ring finger
is backwards,
as if she's holding
the murder weapon like this.
Which is physiologically
impossible.
So either she's got
a really weird
fingerprint
birth defect or...
Someone planted her
fingerprints on the weapon.
Gibbs, we've got a problem.
Yeah, we do.
Laney is at risk
for anaphylaxis.
Right, you're not a doctor.
Uh, I-I was just, uh,
reviewing Laney's
medical records, and--
Actually, Kasie,
your thoroughness
with the ballistics test
really inspired me.
Palmer!Sorry.
Uh, anaphylaxis is
a very serious allergic reaction
that sometimes results in...Skip to the end.
Corporal Alimonte
is allergic to peanuts.
But they were all
over the crime scene.Exactly.
And her condition is so severe,
that if she'd even
walked into that house...
She wouldn't have walked out.
Laney didn't kill Joe Cortez.
She was framed.
TORRES:
Well, we still have
a murder victim.
But we lost our murderer.
McGEE:
Actually, we've got
two victims now.
Someone tried
to frame Laney.
Can't arrest
a "someone."
Well, you can narrow it down
to "someone" that knew her well.
Yeah, someone who knew
she was taking sleeping pills,
knew her routine.
And since Laney didn't do it,
we can rule out
Dr. Pershing, too.
Well, enough ruling out.
Anybody we can rule in?
I got someone.
Our victim had
a girlfriend.
So?A married girlfriend.
Ooh.Jealous husband, anyone?
I like it already.
Well, I finally got
administrator access
to Cortez's bird channel,
and I found hundreds
of private messages
from this woman
and they are steamy.She got a name?
BISHOP:
Just a screen name, for now.
"HiHoBirdie."
So, according to these messages,
she and Cortez would meet up
at his place.
Nothing, like, unusual,
but take a look at this message
from last week.
McGEE:
"Gotta be discreet,
he almost caught us tonight."
Yeah, so "he" is the husband.
Presumably the jealous husband.
What does "gnsdily" mean?
TORRES/BISHOP:
Good night, sweet dreams,
I love you.
Um...
It's, um...
Everyone knows that.
It's a common
texting shorthand.
Very common, yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Um, anyway,
check out this message
a day later.
TORRES:
"If he knew about us,
he'd kill you."
Yeah, that sounds
like a suspect.
And this time with motive.
What is the last
message she sent?
GIBBS: What-what is that?
Is that even English?
Uh, "Where are you?
Text me back."
That was three hours ago.
She doesn't know he's dead.
Well, so let's text her back.
Uh...
No, whoa, whoa,
boss, no.
No. Maybe-maybe
we-we should do it.
Yeah. Uh, you sort of
have to know the lingo.
Well, then somebody lingo.
Okay.
Um, "Need 2CU.
Come over."
What do you think?
No, it needs this.
Oh, you are
a real Casanova.
Yeah. Every Thursdays,
I teach a class.
BISHOP:
Oh, she already texted back.
"Okay, be right there."GIBBS:
McGee, Torres.
Get there first.
[car door closes]
WOMAN:
Joey!
Joey, baby!
I don't have a lot of time.
Okay? Roger's gonna
be back pretty soon.
HiHo, Birdie.
Who, uh, who are you?
Funny, I was just about
to ask you the same question.
I am NCIS Special Agent
Timothy McGee.
I'm sorry, I... I must
have the wrong house.
Special Agent Nick Torres.
Well, you've seen our I.D.s.
So let's see yours.
Um... [scoffs]
What-What's going on?
Well, Mrs. Ponziak,
does your husband know
where you are?
We know about you
and Joe Cortez.
Yeah, so?
I'm having an affair.
Okay? It's not a crime.
Actually, in the state
of Virginia, it is.
And so is murder.
Murder?
Where's Joe?
He's dead.
Shot dead, actually.
[exhales]
He did it.
He really did it.
Your husband?
He threatened to,
but I didn't
take him seriously.
Where's Mr. Ponziak now?
At his OCD therapy session.
With Dr. Pershing?
PERSHING:
Yes, take a deep,
cleansing breath.
NCIS!
Oh, please, not again.Mr. Ponziak,
hands where we can see 'em.
He hypnotized?
Yeah.
It's what I do.
Wake him up.And, apparently,
what you do is arrest
all my patients.
Wake him up! Now.
Okay.
On the count of three,
Roger, we're going to...
W-W-Wait. Actually,
before you bring him out of it,
can you ask him
a few questions?
Wait, you left him hypnotized?
No, of course not.
Gibbs wouldn't let me.
Maybe you should have.
He's not talking.
McGEE: You found out
about your wife's affair.
You went to Cortez's house
and confronted him.
Then you shot him
with his own gun.
Or maybe you just wanted
to talk, but he pulled a gun.
There was a struggle,
and it went off.
Roger, you could have
a case for self-defense here.
[sighs]
Roger.
Oh! Sorry.
What a mess.
Look what I did.
Sorry.
You know who else is dirty?
Joe Cortez.
Oh, yeah.
His house
was a disaster.
Peanuts and seeds
all over the floor.
Your wife probably tracked it
into your house.
All ground up into your carpet.
Look at this.It was disgusting!
It was like an infestation
of-of husks and shells.
So you took care of it.
No more Cortez,
no more dirty house.
Exactly.
Y-You understand me.I do.
I completely understand that
you couldn't take the blame.
And you had
an exceptional patsy
in Corporal Laney Alimonte.
The two of you had back-to-back
therapy sessions.
You overheard everything through
those thin walls. How did you
know she was gonna
be hypnotized that night?
How'd you get her house keys?
I mean, how'd you get
her fingerprints?
She left her purse
in the waiting room.
[chuckles]
Who does that?
[laughs]
And-and then I,
I took the...
[laughs]
Write it down.
Great.
Gotta give it to Gibbs.
He makes 'em confess
and write it down.
Hey, speaking of writing, you
wrote some very touching things
in your little note
to me yesterday.
What? I didn't
write you a note.
Oh, really?
Because...
this... sure looks
like your handwriting.
What the hell?
Oh, I'm never
getting hypnotized again.
Hmm.What did I write?
Personal stuff.
It was actually
very touching.
Seriously, give it back.
Seriously, no.
Okay, fine. Keep it.
Read it every day.
Think about me.
Tell me what it says.Mm-mm.
Hey.
I just finished Laney's
release paperwork.
But, before she goes,
she wanted to say thank you.
For accusing you of murder?
No. Uh, because
of you guys,
the Corps is reviewing
my discharge.
Looks like they're
gonna upgrade it
from OTH to general.
Well, that's great.SECNAV recently issued
a directive for Marines
with mental health issues,
so that the system
will give them a fair shake.
A general discharge means
I get VA health benefits,
no questions asked.
And can see a medical doctor
to get the help
that you deserve.
She wants to tell Gibbs.
Where is he?
Oh, he just left.
Uh, he raced out of
interrogation.
GIBBS:
That's for you.
Okay, now this one
should fit you better.
Glove goes on your left,
so you can throw
with your right.
This is awesome.
Yeah. Let's see
how it works.
Oops. Squeeze it.
All right, hit me in the chest.
Aim for my chest. Right
here. Aim for my chest.
Whoa!
Sorry, Jethro Gibbs.Phineas.
Okay. Yeah, whoa.
We got a little work to do.
Right here.
That's it.
Step, throw.
Follow through.
Ah, no. You're good.
You're good.
All right.
Yeah, man.
You're a natural.
Good.
Step with your leg.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org